Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to begin working on our live search results feature.
Let me show you what I'm referring to.
So when the user clicks on this search icon in the top right header, we can have browser side JavaScript,
open up a full screen search interface.
And then as the user is typing in what they're searching for without even waiting for them to submit
a form, we can begin showing them real live search results with data from our server.
All of this can happen on the fly or asynchronously thanks to our browser side JavaScript skills.
Before we get started, I do want to let you know that a search does not need to be live or asynchronous
like this.
If we wanted to, we could use zero browser based JavaScript and just set up a traditional form that
submits just like the traditional forms we've already set up in this app to create a new post or to
login or register a new user.
I just think when it comes to search results, this will be a fun exercise of receiving live data from
our server on the fly as the user types.
And this will really show off the asynchronous nature and potential of front end JavaScript.
Now, big picture, this search feature can really be broken up into two tasks.
Task one involves front end or browser based JavaScript, and task two involves backend or server side
JavaScript.
In this lesson, let's start with the first task, which is the browser side or front end JavaScript.
Now, this marks the first time in this application that we're going to be writing browser based JavaScript
and we've been so good about keeping our server side code organized and split up into separate files
with unique responsibilities that I don't want all of that organization to go out the window now that
we're working with front end JavaScript.
What I mean by this is I do not want us to just create one big messy spaghetti code file in our public
folder with all of our browser based JavaScript.
Now, yes, eventually we do need to have a JavaScript file in the public folder that the browser can
download with the front end JavaScript.
But that's our end goal or our destination.
We don't want to start here and just create a messy, unorganized file.
Instead, we can set things up in a much more organized fashion and then have an automated tool, bundle
everything up into one file, into the public folder.
Let me show you what I'm getting at.
So within the root of our project folder, let's create a brand new folder and let's name it Front and
dash J.
I do want you to use the same folder name just so we're on the same page.
So it's front and dash jets' within this new folder.
Let's create a new file and let's name this main dot.
Yes.
We will circle back to this file in just a moment.
For now, within our front end JS folder, I actually want us to create a sub folder within it.
So if I right.
Click on the front end jazz folder, choose new folder and let's give this subfolder a name of module's.
The idea is that for each new feature we work on, we create a separate file within the modules folder.
So the task at hand right now is the search feature.
So within this modules folder, let's create a new file and let's name it.
Search JS in the future will also create files in this folder named chat or registration form, not
just within each one of our module files.
We would just want to export code that our main JS file can import.
Then we can set up an automation tool that will bundle up everything that main JS imports and it will
create a file that will automatically be placed in our public folder.
This way we get the best of both worlds.
The front end JS folder is our source code and we can be as organized as we want to be.
But one big messy file still ends up in the public folder that the browser can actually download from
cool.
Now, right now, within our search dogs file, let's just export a bit of code.
So let's say export and we're going to use a new syntax for now.
I'm just going to type it out and then we can circle back to this later to really understand what's
going on.
But let's say export default, class search and then a pair of curly brackets within these curly brackets.
Let's.
Say, constructor, parentheses, curly brackets again, don't worry, I do not expect you to understand
the syntax at all, I promise we will circle back to this a little bit later in the lesson.
But for now, within these curly brackets after constructor, let's drop down.
And just as an annoying test, let's create an annoying alert pop up that says search J.S. is successfully
being executed this way.
A bit later in the lesson when we want to test to make sure that everything's working and connected
properly, we should see an alert pop up message in the browser.
OK, let's go ahead and save this file.
And now I want you to jump into Main J.S. and let's just import in that search file, let's say import
search from and then we provide a file path.
So dot slash to look within this current folder.
Let's dig into the modules folder and pull in the file that is named Search.
You might be scratching your head right now saying this is not the way we've been importing files throughout
the majority of this course.
Right.
You might be thinking where is the required function?
A bit later in the lesson, we can circle back to this import syntax and discuss why we can use this
here.
For now, let's drop down to a new line and let's just create a new instance of search.
We will also revisit what we're doing with this code in just a few minutes.
For now, let's go ahead and save this file.
And now the question becomes, what is this automated tool I've been describing that will bundle this
file up and place it in the public folder for us?
Well, this tool that I've been describing is named Web PIAC Web Pack is insanely popular.
It was downloaded over seven million times from NPM just in the last week.
Hopefully that number is large enough to convince you that using Web pack is not some weird personal
opinion of mine, but rather it's an industry standard or general best practice.
Having said that, right now, let's open up our command line.
If your server is currently running press control, see to stop it.
And let's install a few packages to type this out with me.
NPM install.
The first package that we're interested in is Web pack, and then we can include a space and name another
package that we'd like to download.
So let's also say Web pack dash Seelie.
We're also interested in a few more packages.
So include another space and we want to install at Symbol Bable Forward Slash Core.
Then let's include a space.
We want another package named at Symbol Label Slash Preset Dash N.V. and finally include one more space.
And the last package we're interested in right now is Bable without the at symbol just bable dash loader.
I just zoomed out my command line a bit so that all of this will fit on a single line if you need to
pause the video to type in this entire command with me, that's OK.
But once you've got this typed out, go ahead and press enter since it needs to go download five packages.
This could take a minute, but as soon as it does complete, we now have access to Web pack.
Now out of the box web pack doesn't have any idea about our project folder structure and our file names.
Web pack has no way of knowing where the files that we want to bundle up live.
In other words, Web pack can't read our minds.
So what we need to do within the route of our project folder is create a file named Web Pack config.
Let me show you what I mean so that my top level folder, I'll create a new file and the name of this
file is very important.
It must be named web pack dot config dot js.
Now when we leverage web back, it's going to know to look for a file with this name.
OK, now within this new file, we'd want to tell Westpac where our files live.
So our front end JS folder, we'd want to tell Westpac where it should export or bundle them to.
So that would be our public folder.
And we'd also want to tell Westpac any additional features we want to use.
Now, I do not want this to turn into a course about workflow and configuring tools.
So we are not going to manually type out our configuration for Web back instead of actually already
created a Web configuration for us that we are just going to copy and paste.
So right now in your Web browser, I want you to visit the repository for this course.
Remember, it has a trail of GitHub, dot com slash lern web code slash JavaScript if you look within
the otha complex app folder.
Aside from this templates folder that we've been working with, we also see a file here named Web Config.
Yes.
So just open up that file and then you can click raw here in the browser and just go ahead and select
everything here, copy it into your clipboard and then back in our text editor within our empty web
page config just pasted in.
Essentially, I'm just telling WINPAC where our desired JavaScript files live, where we want to export
them to.
And I'm also setting up use of Bable.
Bable lets us write ultramodern JavaScript code and syntax and then it converts it into JavaScript that
will be supported by basically every web browser under the sun.
Well, that's a bit of an exaggeration, but the idea is that we can write bleeding edge JavaScript
and within the exported, bundled up file, Bable is going to convert it into safer or more traditional
code so that if someone with a slightly older Web browser visits our app, the code will still run without
any problems.
Cool.
Let's go ahead and save this config file and now let's set things up so that any time we save a change
to one of our front end JavaScript files, Web Pack is watching and it automatically triggers a rebuild
and rebundle to the public folder.
Now, remember, we've already set up an NPM run watch task that will automatically watch for safe changes
to our main backend files and restart our server accordingly.
So let's just tack on our Web pack auto bundling into that same watch task.
Let me show you what I mean right now.
Jump into the file named package DOT, JSON that lives within the root of our project.
Within this file.
Remember, under the scripts area, this is where we created our watch task.
So whenever we run that command of NPM Run watch, then the node MOND package is going to run our application,
remember?
We begin with our database JS file and then it's going to automatically restart on any saved change.
Well, we don't want to prevent that from happening.
We want to keep that only now we want to add on a second action.
So still within these quotes, but right after the DB, let's say, and or ampersand web pack and then
a space and dash, dash watch.
Cool.
So now when we run npm run watch any time we save a change to a file and appropriate action is going
to automatically run in response.
Before we save this file, we do need to make a few adjustments though.
Let's tell our node one task to ignore our front end JavaScript folder.
That way, when we save changes to our browser based JavaScript, we don't bother restarting our node
server.
So right after DB, we can just say dash, dash, ignore and then space and then the front and dash
JS folder.
Let's also tell it to ignore the public folder because it's not like anytime a new bundled up file jumps
into that folder, we actually want to restart our node server.
So dash dash ignore public slash cool.
Only at this point I really need your attention if you are using windows because if you're using a Unix
based operating system, so either Linux or Mac, this code will work perfectly.
But if you're using Windows and the default command line in Windows, you're going to run into a problem
related to the ampersand here.
So in Unix based operating systems, the ampersand lets us run multiple tasks in parallel or concurrently.
At the same time, however, in windows, that's not going to happen.
Windows is just going to begin this task.
And since it's ongoing and sits around watching forever, it's really never going to get to our Web
pack task.
So let me show you how we can get around this in Windows.
This is what I do on my Windows 10 computer.
All we need to do is right before the word node mond just include the word start here.
OK, also right before the Web pack task also include start there as well.
Finally change the single ampersand into a double ampersand.
Cool.
That's all you need to do.
This will work perfectly on windows now.
The only difference is that now on Windows, when you run npm, run watch, it's going to open up to
separate command line Windows one for each of these tasks.
This will not prevent them from working properly.
The only downside is that now when you want to stop your server instead of just pressing control, see
once from within your text editor, you'll need to go to these new command line windows.
There will be two of them and you'll need to press control see in each of them.
Cool.
Now, before I save this file, I do want to point out that this new syntax is only for Windows users.
If you're on Mac or Linux, your code should look like this are original setup.
So we do not need the start commands, nor do we need the double ampersand.
We just want single ampersand.
Cool.
Now, if you're working on a development team with multiple developers and you're all collaborating
and you're working with a shared repository and you've got members on your team from different operating
systems, in that case you would need a platform agnostic way of running several tasks at the same time.
So you wouldn't really need this for the educational purposes of this course.
But if you do find yourself in that situation on a team, I recommend the NPM package named concurrently.
It is indeed platform or operating system agnostic.
But for this course, that would just introduce one more dependency or one more complication.
OK, at this point, let's go ahead and save our package dot JSON file and let's test out our NPM run
watch command.
So in our command line, let's say npm run watch.
Cool to see if our new Web functionality is doing its job, look within your public folder.
You should now see a new file named Main Dash bundled dot jets.
Now within all of our Aegis templates, let's just tell the browser to download this file.
Luckily for us, we set up an include file named Footer so we can just make this change in one file.
So right now, jump into your views folder and then the include subfolder and then jump into footrot.
SJS towards the very bottom of this file, right above the closing body tag.
Let's add a new line and type this out with me.
Opening script tag and a closing script tag on the opening tag.
Let's just give it an attribute of SIRC and set that to equal and then just slash main dash bundled
J.S..
Cool.
Let's go ahead and save this.
And now back in the browser, if I refresh any page in the application, I see an annoying alert pop
up search.
J.S. is successfully being executed.
Perfect.
Now let's refresh our memory of where this code is coming from before we bring this lesson to a close.
So back in our text editor within our front end James folder jumped back into Main Jass.
Remember, I said I would explain this new import syntax that we're using instead of node's require
function?
Well, remember that the Bable tool is converting all of our ultra modern JavaScript code into more
traditional code that will work in a wide range of slightly older Web browsers.
And a relatively modern addition to the JavaScript language is native module imports and exports.
So the require function that we've been using in this course is node specific, whereas this import
syntax is part of the JavaScript language itself.
What's interesting is that in node, even as a version 10, you still cannot use this modern import
syntax without using experimental flags.
So as of today, within our server based code, we're going to continue using require to import in modules
or files, but encode that we know is going to be processed and bundled and transpired by our Web pack
and bable set up.
Well, we are safe to use the latest and greatest JavaScript features and syntax.
This also explains why in our search dogs file, instead of using node's syntax of module exports,
we instead just said export default.
OK, now on a different note, you might be very interested in this word class here.
Well, I've got some good news.
That's exactly what we're going to cover in our next lesson.
So let's keep things rolling and I'll see you then.